Add optimize builds page (#9609)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/optimize-builds.md

---
title: "Optimize your dbt builds"
id: "optimize-builds"
description: "Learn how dbt State, deferral, and dbt clone can help you build more efficiently."
pagination_prev: null
pagination_next: null
---

# Optimize your dbt builds

> By default, dbt rebuilds every selected node on every run &mdash; even if nothing has changed. For large projects, this adds up: longer job times, higher warehouse costs, and slower feedback during development. dbt has features designed to help you skip unnecessary work and reuse existing results instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, dbt rebuilds every selected node on every run &mdash; even if nothing has changed. This makes it easy to get started, but adds up for larger projects: longer job times, higher warehouse costs, and slower feedback during development. dbt has features designed to help you skip unnecessary work and reuse existing results instead.
```

## dbt State

> [dbt State](/docs/deploy/dbt-state-about) makes dbt smarter about what to build. Instead of rebuilding every node on every run, it compares each node's logic and upstream data against the previous run and picks the most efficient path:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[dbt State](/docs/deploy/dbt-state-about) is a service that makes dbt smarter about what to build. It integrates into any dbt deployment (including self-hosted deployments) without requiring a recurring <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> subscription.

Instead of rebuilding every node on every run, it compares each node's logic and upstream data against the previous run and picks the most efficient path:
```

- **Skip** — If the node's logic and upstream data haven't changed, dbt reuses the existing object in your target schema as-is.
- **Clone** — If the data is fresh but exists in a different schema (for example, production), dbt clones it rather than rebuilding from scratch.
- **Build** — If reuse isn't possible, dbt rebuilds normally and automatically defers unselected upstream nodes to production &mdash; no `--defer` or `--state` flags required.

To enable dbt State:

- **<Constant name="core" /> v1.7–1.12**: 

    ```bash
    cd path/to/your/project
    pip install dbt-state
    ```

- **<Constant name="core" /> v2**:

    ```bash
    cd path/to/your/project
    dbt login
    ```

> Authentication requires a <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> account or a [standalone dbt State account](https://app.state.dbt.com). For more information, refer to [Setting up dbt State](/docs/deploy/dbt-state-setup).

Reviewer: I don't think there's value in sending people to the standalone signup flow since we're working to absorb those into the main dbt platform accounts in the next few weeks anyway. 

I also want to make it clearer that you need a dbt platform _account_ but not a dbt platform _subscription_ - you can use dbt State on a pay as you go basis, without needing to subscribe to the rest of the platform on a per-seat rate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authentication requires a pay-as-you-go <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> account with a free trial. For more information, refer to [Setting up dbt State](/docs/deploy/dbt-state-setup).
```

## Deferral

[Deferral](/reference/node-selection/defer) lets you build a subset of your project without building all upstream dependencies first. Instead of running everything upstream, dbt points unbuilt references at existing objects in another environment &mdash; typically production.

This is useful in development and CI environments, where you want to test one or two models without waiting for a full pipeline run.

```bash
dbt build --select my_model --defer --state path/to/prod/artifacts
```

## dbt clone

[`dbt clone`](/reference/commands/clone) creates copies of selected nodes in a target schema. On warehouses that support zero-copy cloning (for example, Snowflake), it creates lightweight database clones without duplicating the underlying data. On other warehouses, it creates views pointing at the upstream relations.

This is useful in development when you want to quickly populate a dev environment with production-like objects without running the full pipeline.

```bash
dbt clone --select my_model

> ```

Reviewer: If we're catching people at all stages of their dbt lifecycle, we should also repeat the obvious one! 

``````suggestion
```

## Use dbt's selection syntax

dbt has a [variety of other selectors](/reference/node-selection/syntax) which you can use instead of building your entire project every time, such as `+my_model` or `my_model+2`. 
``````

---
title: "Optimize your dbt builds"
id: "optimize-builds"
description: "Learn how dbt State, deferral, and dbt clone can help you build more efficiently."
pagination_prev: null
pagination_next: null
---

# Optimize your dbt builds

By default, dbt rebuilds every selected node on every run &mdash; even if nothing has changed. This makes it easy to get started, but adds up for larger projects: longer job times, higher warehouse costs, and slower feedback during development. dbt has features designed to help you skip unnecessary work and reuse existing results instead.

## dbt State

> [dbt State](/docs/deploy/dbt-state-about) is a service that makes dbt smarter about what to build. It integrates into any dbt deployment (including self-hosted deployments) without requiring a recurring <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> subscription.

Reviewer 2: I'm worried the last part _could_ potentially be misconstrued as it being a "free" service. What if we state all the supported deployments?

```suggestion
[dbt State](/docs/deploy/dbt-state-about) is a service that makes dbt smarter about what to build. It integrates into any dbt deployment, including the <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> and the self-hosted <Constant name="fusion_engine" /> and <Constant name="core" />.
```

Instead of rebuilding every node on every run, it compares each node's logic and upstream data against the previous run and picks the most efficient path:

> - **Skip** — If the node's logic and upstream data haven't changed, dbt reuses the existing object in your target schema as-is.

Reviewer 2: Suggest keeping this consistent across docs
```suggestion
- **Skip** &mdash; If the node's logic and upstream data haven't changed, dbt reuses the existing object in your target schema as-is.
```

> - **Clone** — If the data is fresh but exists in a different schema (for example, production), dbt clones it rather than rebuilding from scratch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Clone** &mdash; If the data is fresh but exists in a different schema (for example, production), dbt clones it rather than rebuilding from scratch.
```

> - **Build** — If reuse isn't possible, dbt rebuilds normally and automatically defers unselected upstream nodes to production &mdash; no `--defer` or `--state` flags required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Build** &mdash; If reuse isn't possible, dbt rebuilds normally and automatically defers unselected upstream nodes to production &mdash; no `--defer` or `--state` flags required.
```

To enable dbt State:

> - **<Constant name="core" /> v1.7–1.12**: 

Reviewer 2: Since we're ostensibly continuing with v1.x versions for a bit maybe something like:
```suggestion
- **<Constant name="core" /> v1.x (starting with v1.7)**: 
```

Author: Leaving this as is because the plan is to add back dbt State to 1.13 (no need to install the plugin)

    ```bash
    cd path/to/your/project
    pip install dbt-state
    ```

- **<Constant name="core" /> v2**:

    ```bash
    cd path/to/your/project
    dbt login
    ```

> Authentication requires a pay-as-you-go <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> account with a [free trial](/docs/deploy/dbt-state-trial). For more information, refer to [Setting up dbt State](/docs/deploy/dbt-state-setup).

Reviewer 2: Pay-as-you-go implies a Starter plan, but should this also include Enterprise (disregard if not). Additionally, without any other context, this sentence may be a little confusing, it could be helpful to just link to the docs with a message like "For more information about configuration options..."
```suggestion
Authentication requires a <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> account on a Starter or Enterprise plan with a [free trial](/docs/deploy/dbt-state-trial). For more information, refer to [Setting up dbt State](/docs/deploy/dbt-state-setup).
```

## Deferral

[Deferral](/reference/node-selection/defer) lets you build a subset of your project without building all upstream dependencies first. Instead of running everything upstream, dbt points unbuilt references at existing objects in another environment &mdash; typically production.

This is useful in development and CI environments, where you want to test one or two models without waiting for a full pipeline run.

```bash
dbt build --select my_model --defer --state path/to/prod/artifacts
```

## dbt clone

[`dbt clone`](/reference/commands/clone) creates copies of selected nodes in a target schema. On warehouses that support zero-copy cloning (for example, Snowflake), it creates lightweight database clones without duplicating the underlying data. On other warehouses, it creates views pointing at the upstream relations.

This is useful in development when you want to quickly populate a dev environment with production-like objects without running the full pipeline.

```bash
dbt clone --select my_model
```

## dbt's selection syntax

> dbt has a [variety of selectors](/reference/node-selection/syntax) you can use to target specific parts of your project instead of building everything every time. For example, `+my_model` selects `my_model` and all of its upstream dependencies, while `my_model+2` selects `my_model` and two levels of downstream dependents. This lets you test your changes in isolation without running your entire project.

Reviewer 2: Every other section has some sort of example, it might be beneficial to include a small one here as well
